Hello everybody and welcome back.
At the moment we've got an issue with inserting data into our strings so we're printing out to the terminal
currently and it's quite Noddy we want to be able to say you've got this many lives and the hidden word
is this long etc. We want to be able to insert this data that we've got into our string so we can show
it to our player now when using f strings we need to insert data into our strings using what's known
as a format specified.
Now we should use the F string printf function to do this.
Now we've hardcoded this into our terminal code itself.
So we'll do it longhand to begin with.
So you know what it should look like.
But then we can make it our code that is look a lot simpler by removing this because it's already being
included so be pointless doing it twice.
But it is important because if you ever want to insert different types of data into something you're
printing out to the player.
You can have to format it using this function now form it specifies.
There are a load of them in this particular section we're going to use percentage s for our strings
and percentage ie for integers Paco's notation so that percentage I now come up and I'll challenge now
our printer function is what's known as a static member function in the last lecture.
We use the dots operator to access instances of strings that already exist.
However print f doesn't require an instance of an F string and we can use it to format any f string
that we want.
Now this is a gotcha because I know some of you are going to read that and I did when I first saw it
printed off.
Well it doesn't print anything that's important what it does is it formats.
So in order to print out to our terminal we still need to use print line to output to the terminal.
Okay.
So before we jump into the coding itself let's talk about the correct formatting.
So we've just a string what we can do is what we've been doing so far we can pass it in like this and
we can even just go print line without the text there and just pass in an F string variable.
That would work.
However when it comes to the rest of it when inserting values you'll need to do this and I can see some
of your eyes widening as you look at this.
Don't worry we'll break it down step by step in fact we'll go from the inside outwards.
So let's have a look.
Let me turn on my pointer.
So let's have a look at this area.
Here we've got.
Hello.
And then the percentage the format specified.
S So we're looking for each string outside of that we've got the text macro itself.
Which is fine.
And then we have this comma we're passing in the hidden word.
So when this prints out it will say hello and whatever the hidden word has been defined as and you'll
notice this little asterisk or star here we'll delve into that more detail in a moment and then we've
got our f string print f function which will format this without this in place.
This part of our code would not work.
Now I'll show you in a minute that we do already have that in place so we can remove that later on.
But we'll type it out fully to begin with.
And then we've got print line so we know where outputting to our terminal.
Let's dive over into V.S. code and take a closer look Okay everybody Welcome back.
Now the first thing I want to do here is move my setup game function call.
So it's slightly higher.
It makes the most sense to set up our game as one of the first things that we do then we know that the
hidden word and the lives are set and ready to go.
Now let's have a closer look at what we can do here.
OK.
So what we want to do here is print line and then if it wasn't already built into the code we would
then need to do the F string followed by the scope resolution operator and then prints o F's thing.
I wondered why it wasn't auto completing.
There we go print f then we can use our text macro then we can put in our string and then we would need
our arguments at the end and in this case it's going to be star asterisk hidden word.
Now the star itself already going to use that with strings and we'll look at why in a moment.
And of course we need to end that with a semicolon.
Now I'm just going to check that I have the right number of parentheses in so as you hover over and
click.
You can make sure that the pairs of parentheses are all highlighted and they'll probably have a red
squiggle underneath as well but that's a good visual indicator.
So here we can go the hidden word is colon and then we're going to use the format specify percentage
as we're gonna save our work here and just make sure that works.
And then we'll delve into the details.
So overreliant on real compiler code and what I'm expecting to see is right at the top before we welcome
the player just the debug line essentially saying that the hidden word is cake.
And there we go that's exactly what I expect to see.
So this go back over into code.
And first of all make comments here.
This is a debug line that we can then turn on and off.
So as with as we start developing our code and our game in general we're going to have different hidden
words.
So we're going to turn this on when testing the game to make sure that we know what the hidden word
is so we're able to test our bulls and cows later on as we're assessing it.
And then when we pass it on to a player to use we can simply comment out that line and then they can
play the game without knowing what the hidden word happens to be so I'm just going to copy this line
of code real quick and come down and paste it in again.
So the way that we can format things within this particular game is like this.
We don't actually need to include the printer function.
Why.
Well if I go over to our code that's running the console you'll see here that we've included it as parts
of the print lines definition and this is a nice bit of optimization.
It's one of those things where if we have to type this again and again and again that is something you'd
want to do in your future code as well.
Now the other thing I want to talk about is why we have an asterisk here.
Well one of the really handy things about V.S. code is you can hold down old and you can start investigating.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
I'm going to hold down old on my keyboard and probably option on the Mac and let's go ahead and click
on r asterisk and all.
And where we've ended up is in the unreal string header file.
Don't worry you don't have to understand everything that you're about to see in front of you.
What this is going to do and it's commented at the top here is it's going to get a pointer to this string.
Now would discuss point is in much more detail later on a pointer is simply an address where that string
is stored in memory and then it's going to return a pointer to an array of characters.
So there is some terminology in there that some of you won't have a clue what it means but basically
puts if I was to write out cake C A K E that would be an array of length five because we've got half
four characters CSKA and a null character to let the compiler know that that is the end of that string.
Now if we had something else like monkey then the array would be not six but seven characters long.
So you can see that this array varies in size which is why we need to access it in this particular way.
Whereas if we go back to our main code here.
If we were accessing something like lives which is an integer if we have a look let's close down the
young real string had a file for have a look here it's an integer now the int 32 it's 32 bits.
Divide that by eight which is four bytes it's a four byte space in memory that's going to be occupied.
Whereas the F string is dynamic it depends how many characters are within that string itself.
But I digress.
So the point is that print f is a function from the C standard library so it has no knowledge of use
it to find types like F string.
However null terminated strings like the C K with that null character at the end.
So an array that's five in length have its cake it does understand.
So we need to access it with the asterisk or star.
Okay wow so that was quite a bit to take in so let's just summarise how we are going to format our strings
within our game.
We're going to print line when it comes out to the console because in our code we already have this
print f included within the definition of our print line function.
We don't have to keep writing it every single time which means that we can print line.
Make sure you're using the text macro then we put our string in and if we need to include extra data
we need to make sure we use format specifies and if we wanted to include let's say it is percentage
ie characters long we would then need another argument at the back here probably saying hidden word
dot length.
And remember that is a function so it requires those parentheses characters long and just kind of remove
this capitalization have a strange habit of doing that.
So let's just test this here and see how it operates.
So let's compile our code once it's compiled we'll play it and what we should find is I don't know.
I don't know whether this is going to go off the end of our terminal is if it does only to specify a
new line in that it is four carat as long.
So we've got wrapping enabled that's absolutely fine.
But it looks a bit rubbish that the characters is gone along so let's be explicit here and put in a
new line save our file and let's go over into one real compiler code again and this looks much better
on the screen.
If this is really useful here the hidden word is cake that's useful for us for debugging and it is for
characters long.
Well the hidden word is cake.
Ball was in there twice still.
I didn't delete the other line so I guess the four letter word.
So we're already starting to duplicate what's going on here and in your challenge coming up you'll be
tidying this up and removing our magic numbers.
Okay so as hinted that we need to remove those magic numbers so replace magic numbers in our code with
an actual number.
So if we're talking about the length of the hidden word then use hidden word dot Len in order to access
the length of the hidden word.
If you want to access lives then of course we will go to lives.
And I think I might eventually end up setting lives to the length of the hidden word.
So the longer the word is the more lives you have.
Haven't quite decided that yet.
But here we go.
You're going to use the hidden words length as the argument that you're passing in and you'll need to
use percentage I in a lot of cases just remember that as your format specifies.
And finally I'd like you to take some time to tidy up your code.
I've noticed in mine I've got some extra whitespace I've obviously been moving something around or if
press enter a couple of times or something thinking about something says good to tidy up your code as
you go if you spot something sorted out there and then otherwise you'll just end up with a mess that's
difficult to read.
So go ahead pulls a video now and give that a go
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and remove those magic numbers Okay so we're back over in our implementation S.P. file.
I'm happy with the hidden word is this long.
However I want to separate out.
Actually it is this character's long so guess the.
I think we can just remove that.
I'm going to remove that entirely.
Oh I forgot to close off my quotation marks.
So what have you got here we've not got enough parentheses so that's that.
Or have we.
Yes we did.
I'm reacting to a red squiggle that shouldn't be there.
Okay so now that we've said the hidden word is that that's what the bug line in fact that is what was
there before so we can get rid of this one underneath.
Otherwise it's going to print out twice.
So then we're going to welcome to.
We don't need that comma there.
That's why it's complaining okay.
We are welcoming the players so welcome to ball cows guess the four letter word.
So this is the first magic number that we need to remove.
So I guess the four letter word kind of puts a comma in here and we're going to put in hidden word dot
Lane.
There we go.
Now the reason why we can just put that in there is if we hover over we see that whilst hidden word
we hover over that we see it's returning an integer whereas the header word itself is a string so this
is really useful.
Hover over things gets used to what they are returning to the type of the length is an integer so we
can then guess the integer letter words in this case we change our hidden word which we will do in a
moment to test to make sure this is working.
It will change from four to something else.
Some of the saved my work there and remove that comment to remove the magic number because we've just
done that.
Now let's clear up some of this extra whitespace.
We've got a prompts the player for I guess presented to continue at the moment.
Now prompting the player for a guess has to happen before we actually assess their guess.
So we might as well put that in.
Now we said here press Enter to continue.
This is really the prompting the player for the guests.
So we might as well prompt them to guess.
So type in your guess and press and continue.
That might be too long we might want to split it out over two lines.
But I will leave it like that for the moment.
So that's fine.
We've removed the magic number.
Have we got any other magic numbers.
Yes we have the hidden word is.
So this is the reminder that we had earlier.
So full percentage I characters long.
And this is again what we're going to use we're going to use the hidden word dot length.
There we go you've lost.
And I don't think anything else is here we're still not using lives were very close to using it though
because we need to assess whether the game is over or not.
And lives are going to be integral for that happening.
It's going to save my code pop over into unreal compile and make sure it's working as expected.
OK.
Let's press play the hidden word is cake.
Welcome to bull cows.
Guess the four letter word typing your guess and press enter to two.
Okay so we might want to sort that out.
But if I type in something that's the wrong length like that the hidden word is for characters long.
Okay.
So we know that that works.
And it's always been for characters long.
So it would be a good test at this point to also try a different word.
So we've got cake.
We could put in cakes instead.
So we're now we're expecting it to be a five letter word.
We have to go back and compile okay with the compilation complete the hidden word is k.
No it's not.
It's cakes.
I'm pretty sure I typed in this case if cakes.
So I've seen this a couple of times with unreal where the first time you press compile it doesn't seem
to compile the code that you had if it does do that do press compile again and just check.
Here we go.
So that was one of those instances where it just didn't compile correctly the first time guess the five
letter word so I'm happy with everything there.
So if I was to go ahead and type something else in the hidden word is five characters long.
Try again.
Okay.
I'm really happy with my code is working there.
I hope you're happy with your working code as well.
We're almost at the point now where we can have a game loop with lives as well.
And we'll be covering that in the next lecture in fact.
So share your work over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.